Dr. Steven Hairfield is a mystic, monk,
psychic and scholar.
His life's journey is the stuff of which movies are made.
After a difficult home life as a youth
Steven sought relief by volunteering
for military duty in Vietnam during the war.
Far beyond the reaches of his expectations in life,
a monk appeared in a small village
where he was stationed as an explosives expert.
This is where his spiritual awakening began,
taking him ultimately to his beloved teacher
master Lobsang.
My journey actual began as a,
oddly enough, as a child.
I have no issue with sharing with people
that I had probably the meanest dad on planet Earth.
And when I had gotten my draft notice
to go into the military I was actually excited.
Little did I know I was jumping
out of the frying pan into the fire.
But because I don't believe there's any accident,
I now, in retrospect, look back and realize
that what I was doing was looking to find
my relationship with with life
and what we term is the creator,
whom I humorously refer to as mom.
Anyway, after all the training I went through
I did end up in southeast Asia, Vietnam.
And ended up in a small community called Quang Ngai.
And working with the second
ARVN Vietnamese armored division.
And it was, needless to say, hectic.
(laughs) What a lovely word for Vietnam.
It was hectic.
One day I had an urge and went into
the little village of Quang Ngai
which was actually a very beautiful old city,
and I was walking down the street
and I looked across the street
and there was this Zen monk
which I didn't know at the time.
But he had the robes on, crimson red and yellow,
and he scurried across the street
and walked right up to me.
A little man, and put his finger in my face and said,
young man, if you do not learn to use what you have
it will destroy you.
He had my attention.
And we began to speak and he asked me to follow him.
And we went maybe a mile and a half
outside the city of Quang Ngai
and there was this monastery.
And he invited me to spend time with him,
and I did.
How was this possible?
What were some of the responsibilities you had
while you were in this small town?
Let us just say I was known as a weapons expert.
I blew things up.
And I was wrestling with myself over that.
And I realize now in retrospect
that being in a war, that we have to understand
just how low human can stoop
so we can realize how high it can fly.
And my teachers in the Zen monasteries
began to open my mind to that.
How were you able, I mean just,
I'm just looking at this from a practical level,
were you able to just take a leave
of a few days at a time and go there?
How did this work? Did you sneak off at night
and stay up 24/7? How did you do this?
On occasion all of the above,
but I had actually a wonderful CO
who used to engage me in conversation about the Buddhists.
I found out he was actually a Buddhist.
Oh how fortunate.
Yeah, it's one of those seeming streaks of luck
or strokes of luck, whatever you wish to call them.
But I'm a person that doesn't believe in coincidence,
and there again I had a CO
that just said, yeah okay.
When you're not in the field
then go ahead, I know where to find you.
Wonderful, so now I have that
out of my logical portion of the brain.
So once you were there in the monastery,
with the monk...
What I found out is is Zen actually
was founded by an individual
known as Bodhidharma, which is embodied path,
is actually what that stands for.
He was an offshoot of the Buddha and Buddhists.
He found out through the proper use of intuition
that you could achieve enlightenment
at a much faster rate.
What the monk on the street that day realized within me
is he could see from across the street
an extremely high level of the intuitive sense.
And Zen stands for fast path, or proper use
of intuition and or intertuition.
And for about 14 months I was able to interact
with the Zen traditions in southeast Asia.
And then it was time for me to head back
to the United States.
And one of the main things that they taught me,
and had me realize, which I rely on to this day,
is always follow what my urges guide me to.
And it paid off handsomely when I was
in my senior year in college getting a degree in psychology
because I wanted to understand my own mind,
which is really why I was doing it.
I had started having an urge to go to India,
a place I'd never been.
And as the days and weeks and months progressed
it became, Regina, absolutely totally overpowering.
And I knew that I just had to go to India.
I knew I was going to graduate,
I didn't even hang around for my graduation ceremony.
I sold everything I had, bought a pack,
a sleeping bag, an open ended ticket to India,
put a thousand dollars in my pocket,
and landed in Delhi, India.
And no idea where I was going.
As I headed out of India on foot
I would find myself at the end of each day,
out of Delhi I should say,
at the end of each day I was in a little village.
And interestingly enough I never used my tent
and I never, well I used my sleeping bag
in the people's houses and huts,
that I was invited to stay with these people.
And each morning when I would get up
an elderly gentleman would greet me
and he would draw me a map in the dirt
and I would follow this map.
And sure enough, at the end of the next day
there was another village, same thing occurred.
And on and on and on for weeks.
And I got to what's known as the Punjab,
the deserts of northern India,
and I was thirsty and still following my urges
and trusting everything.
Couldn't speak a lick of Hindi.
Had no idea what they were saying.
But when I got to the fringes of the Punjab
I was thirsty, decided to have a cup of tea,
went to a little roadside cafe, ordered a cup of tea,
sat down under a tree,
and as I was watching the people on this dirt road
traveling, this voice behind me said
we've been waiting for you.
And I knew...
I knew that nobody knew, excuse me,
sensitivity to it.
Powerful moments.
Yeah.
I knew, or I thought nobody knew I was in India.
And I didn't even turn around, and the voice said again,
your name is Steven, is it not?
Shocked.
Slowly turned around and looked into
the softest brown eyes I've ever seen.
Turned out to be
one of the greatest people I've ever met.
Master Lobsang.
And he said to me, we've been waiting for you.
And I said how did you know I was here?
And he said we began calling you
about six months ago
and we knew that you would be here
on this day at this time.
And it was master Lobsang and master Kaila.
And they looked at me and said you're here to learn.
You're here to learn about consciousness.
You're here to learn about life.
And you're here to learn about one known as Isha.
And I said, who was Isha?
He said it is the one that you know as Jesus, he was here.
And they basically said come with me.
And the interesting thing, Regina, is I thought to myself
well I've got a couple of months
so I can do that.
And I headed off with them.
Little did I know it was going to be years later
before I returned to the United States.
Wow.
So, and you can see how much it still touches me.
Oh, it sounds magnificent.
Did they ever explain to you how they had identified you
and why they had called you to begin with.
Um, let me see if I can make this
kind of a short idea.
They didn't know at first my name,
but they use, monastic teachings teach the idea
of oneness and consciousness and our connectedness to it.
They knew, there's an ancient prophecy says
that the mantle of wisdom will be passed from east to west.
And what they did is they look for an energy type
that was independent, and as I later found out
was somewhat rebellious,
and they ended up landing on me.
And to them, as Lobsang shared with me,
it was the only one that they found.
And the whole monastery, the Darjeeling Monastery,
would focus on that energy type
until they actually got my name.
And then they learned that I was in
the northwestern United States,
and they put all the energy there.
And, as suggested earlier, Regina,
that as each day progressed it was
just stronger and stronger.
So you can say there's no way you would have
stuck around for that graduation ceremony with that.
No, I couldn't.
Greatest move I ever made.
Because they're astounding people.
But they basically knew I was in India
the day the jet touched the ground.
And they left, I was about
200 miles from the spot where we met
and they were about 200 miles from the spot we met.
And they knew the exact day.
I mean, I hadn't been there more than,
I had just got my tea, and had just sat down
under the shade of a tree, set back
and leaned against my backpack.
And that's when Lobsang spoke
and he said we've been waiting for you.
Right on time.
Yes ma'am. That's what he said.
That's amazing.
Um, it's, I'm not the only one that's happened to.
Right.
I think Kahlil Gibran had a similar event.
Very same thing.
Now you're with them
and you're learning about, they pronounce it Isha?
Isha. Why did they choose to teach you
about Jesus and his years that are called the lost years,
(laughs) which is interesting in
and of itself metaphorically.
That's just a mystery that religion wanted
to build into it, the early Catholic church,
to create the mystery of the Christ
so that he would be the only one
so to speak.
Well, as it turns out,
through my discussions with them,
they learned to understand that I was Catholic
so what a more opportune moment
than to shock a Catholic out of their
dogmatic approach to life
and show them what Christ was actually taught.
And walk the same road, basically.
Was shown and taught the same ideas and ideals.
Sat in a cave and swam in a lake
in Nepal that even to this day is known as Lake Isha,
where he spent time.
They singled me out, I guess,
because of my openness and my desire.
I mean I wanted to find out who this guy was.
I knew as a child going into church
that the way they talked about this thing called God
was only half the story
because it's not a man, it can't be.
Even if we look in the idea of the book of genesis,
it literally states let us create human in our image
and in our likeness, both male and female.
So that gives us a very distinct message right there.
But I knew at seven and eight years old
that this is not anything that Christ himself wanted.
That that was not what he was about.
I knew as a child that he didn't even like churches.
So that was part of why they did indeed
single me out, because I already had that
as a platform.
And I wanted to know, and as I shared with you
before we began this process,
my whole journey, even to this day,
is about looking under every leaf,
every rock and every eye
to find that hidden message or that secret.
And I shared with you, there are none.
But if anybody goes to India just to prove
or disprove the 18 years of
Christ missing, they won't show them anything.
I remember in the Hemis monastery in Ladakh,
when the abbot came up to me and he said
your Isha was here.
And I was with Lobsang and Kaila
and I told them why I was there.
And had the robes on, I was a monk
for all intents and purpose.
And they brought me the scrolls.
And I had my own interpreter and they read them to me
about what he was doing, why he was even in Ladakh,
why he spent times with the Jains, the Brahmans,
studying the vedas, the sutras,
why he was in the community where
Buddha was born and raised,
and why he wanted to know all of that.
And people go, Steven, it's not true.
The book I'm working on now
is the 12 Sacred Laws of Karma.
Christ quotes them, all 12 of them, in the biblical text.
He does them in his words.
But when you read what Buddha said
500 years prior, and what Christ said
500 years later, they're too strikingly similar to say.
That now means he learned them somewhere.
And my point and my shock was
Christ was not born the way he was.
He was to a point, certainly, but he was taught
how to do it.
And that's what this individual attempts
to bring to this part of the world,
is that knowledge.
So when you became exposed to
this new understanding of
the one who walked the earth named Jesus,
Jesus Christ, did this set your life on fire?
What did this do to you by way of shaping
what was going to come?
Because you've written some incredible books
based somewhat on that research.
I mean, somewhat on what you learned at that time
and then of course way beyond, you've studied everything.
Well interestingly enough, I didn't know back then
I was doing this to write books.
I was told by Lobsang that I would end up writing seven.
That's actually my fourth.
What happened to your, I guess I'm saying
what happened to your mind when you were exposed
to this information?
Peace. I was at peace with it.
It was like, Regina, I knew,
I knew this.
It was all familiar to me.
I didn't know how or why at the time,
but it was like I had been there, done that.
It's like I had read these things, I had seen these things
and had experienced these things.
It was comforting
to know that
what I was studying was confirming
what I had known since my birth.
When everybody else told me I was...
I can remember an experience in the fourth grade
where I looked at my fourth grade teacher Miss Stevenson,
we were looking at a map of the world flat,
and I looked at her and said
it all used to be one island.
And I got chastised
just like I did about my notions of the Christ.
Of course we know today, as geology has confirmed,
that is correct.
And as my teachers in India confirmed, that is correct.
So it just brought, it was like okay.
Finally someone is telling me the truth.
Yeah absolutely.
And being able to read it,
and being able to literally stand at the
base of Mount Nebo in Kashmir
at a grave that I was told was Moses.
Now isn't that interesting?
Interesting, yes.
Because Mount Nebo is also in the middle east
and supposedly that's where Moses was buried.
But a monk has no reason to lie
and they are meticulous record keepers.
Yes.
If it creates a collision in religion
then I guess it's the dogmatic approaches dilemma.
Yeah, let everyone else work that out.
Yes ma'am.
And so, after your time with these studies,
and after your time with the monk
that you so dearly love,
how much time passed and then
where did you go from there?
What happened to your life from that point?
One day Lobsang, they had taught me to,
through meditation,
that leads towards what's known as
a samhadi experience or a bodhisattva experience.
It's reaching or coming to the realization
of your own godhood.
And I remember that I went up on the roof of the monastery
late one afternoon in the fall,
and began doing the meditation
and didn't realize I was up there
for well over five hours.
And what had happened
is I had broken the bond or the illusion
of a finite life and began to experience
every single lifetime that I'd ever been here.
Saw them. The births, the deaths, the conflicts.
I was hung in the late 15th century
as a highwayman because I held up the wrong carriage.
And to actually see that
is an interesting experience.
And when I came down from the roof that day
master Lobsang and Kaila both
greeted me and they were smiling
because they knew.
You'd had your
Yeah.
Break.
I had broken through the seven seals.
And Lobsang said, young man it's time for you to go home.
How did you feel when he said those words?
You're seeing it.
Was it heartbreaking and honoring
all at the same time?
Well at first I didn't know why.
But he reminded me of the prophecy of the mantle
being passed from east to west.
And he said now that the book of knowledge was known,
it was time for me to share it.
So,
I'm considering the wording, they escorted me to Delhi.
Why did you have to consider the wording?
Did they have to put you in shackles? (laughs)
Almost. I absolutely did not want to leave.
I mean living in a monastery is an amazing life.
It's not all
total meditation and doing nothing.
I mean that's what I believe a lot of people
don't understand, it's a 24/7 job.
You're planting fields, you're harvesting,
you're working on the monastery,
you're working on yourself,
you're going through lessons,
and at some point
if you desire, I actually had a pet,
he was a full grown Bengal tiger, 400 pounds.
Well, it was the monasteries pet.
I love Bengal tigers.
They're so beautiful.
Yeah they are.
If you ever get to hear one purr.
I have, I've been close to one. Yes.
Then you know.
No, they walked with me to talk with me
about why, because I really didn't want to leave.
America was the furthest thing from my mind.
And besides, they knew
I was going to be in trouble with the authorities in India
because of the passports and visas,
and I hadn't checked in for almost four years.
(laughs)
They wanted to explain to them, and they did,
and I came back to the United States
and then got absorbed in corporate America
because they also informed me
that what I would do was it would go dormant in me
until I was in my mid 40s and I would have a dream
and it would all come flooding back.
And I was about 45 or 46 years old
and all of a sudden I had this vivid dream of Lobsang
and all he said to me in this dream, his first words were
it is time young man, awaken.
And I walked away from a 230 thousand dollar a year job
and said I can't do this anymore.
Got my PhD and do what I do today.
Okay now, there are some lost years.
(laughs) Let's go back.
Steven's lost years.
Okay, so you come back here and you said,
you just mentioned you go into the corporate world.
After an experience like that
there had to have been, you know,
some boldness to that shift, but also what happened?
How did that happen?
The greatest lesson
that I as an individual had to achieve
was to live the same lifestyle in this part of the world
and overcome the pulls of life.
The idea of money, success, the houses,
the bank accounts, the suits.
I had to come to the realization
that there was no value in any of that.
So it was actually...
But you spent a number of years
learning this it sounds like.
14.
What did you, if you don't mind my asking
although it sounds rather mundane at this point,
but what were you doing?
In the electronics and computer industry, mainframe.
IBM, digital equipment, data general,
doing design work even though
I wasn't a double E, electrical engineer.
But designing computers for organizations
and corporations, but yeah.
Okay, and you did well at it obviously.
And then did it go dormant?
Did your knowledge go dormant?
No. How can we unknow what we know?
Exactly, so what did he mean
by the fact that you're going to forget
or...
I would get caught up in the corporate world
and the lifestyle of the American individual.
And did you?
Only to an extent
because there was a part of me
that always felt out of place after that.
But it also helped me perpetually
keep a very calm cool mind in everything that I was doing.
And as projected, literally,
I said now I've had enough of this.
It's time for me to do what I came to do.
And I literally woke up one morning,
walked in to my area manager
and said Bruce, I'm done.
I don't want to do this any more.
And he thought I was kidding.
And I told him, I said, this is my two week notice.
I came in two weeks later and
asked him if they had my final paper work all done
and he looked at me and said no, I thought you were kidding.
And I said, no. Send it to me.
And I turned in my badge and my keys
and I walked out the door.
I've never looked back.
The only thing I've ever looked back at in my life
is Lobsang and Kaila.
And Santichai, which is the tiger.
Santichai actually stands for peaceful tiger.
That was his name.
When you had the dream
and Lobsang came to you that night,
and they sent you your papers, your final papers,
what did you proceed to do at that point?
Get my PhD in the field of metaphysics.
How does that happen?
When we look at the progression of life,
and one of the things that I learned was,
is there's always the obvious and the physical human
always focuses on the obvious first.
And then we have the belief system
which is the undercurrent
of the physical nature of the human.
My Masters is in religion and theology.
And then metaphysics is the field or study of causality.
What's the first cause?
Why stuff happens.
And that's the reason I did that.
I didn't know what else to do.
I began to get back deeply into my meditation
after I walked away from corporate America.
And I had enough in the bank just to
basically do very little.
And that's when I decided to get
the doctorate in metaphysics.
Because I felt that would close out the cycle for me.
And then after I got that I woke up one morning
and went you know what?
You don't have much money left.
What are you gonna do?
And I'm doing what I've always been,
so to speak, destined to do.
I love people, interacting with people.
I love writing.
People ask me, what is my dream?
And it's a small thing,
I would like to change the entire face of humankind.
And I can only do that through me
and through one person at a time.
And in doing that I share the teachings I've learned
in the corporate world and what I've learned
from my teachers in India
and from my interactions with everyday people
that I meet on the street.
And that's what I'm after
and that's what I will put my entire being into.
And you have been, and you began writing.
Now, did Lobsang tell you you were going to be writing
those books before you left the monastery?
Yes.
And so, of course it wasn't a stretch
or to far a leap for you to say it's time to begin.
Or did Lobsang come to you in a dream
and tell you to begin?
No, actually that didn't happen until later.
When he told me that I kind of rolled my eyes,
there you go young man, just resisting again.
And I had just remembered when he said that,
that when I was in high school a 500 word essay
was a stretch for me.
I can remember going, 498, 499, 500,
cool, there's my period right there.
And I was done with it.
I could not envision myself as a writer.
I've never taken journalism, never studied it.
But one day I went out and I bought a computer
and I sat down in front of it
and nothing came.
And then four months later I sat back down
in front of the computer and I couldn't
keep my fingers off the keyboard.
And what came out?
The very first book I ever wrote, it's
Once Upon a Parable is the title,
and it's acutally one huge Zen kwon.
It's a 285 page Zen kwon.
A kwon is a word puzzle.
It's purpose is designed to make you think.
And the whole book from beginning to end,
I've had people tell me they would open it, read it,
and throw it in a corner.
And they would go back and pick it up,
read it, and throw it in a corner.
Because it makes you think about what you're doing,
why are you doing what you're doing?
It's purpose was designed to get people
to shift their life in a new direction.
And monks use kwons to educate their students.
And that was the first one.
It actually, from beginning, the day I began writing it,
with the help of my editor Chris Kamerer,
until the day it was done was six months.
And it was actually in printed form and out.
Amazing.
And the second one actually took a year
which is Messages from the Ancients,
or Return to Innocence: Messages from the Ancients,
which is a translation of the Nag Hammadi
and the dead sea scrolls.
Which you've held.
Yes.
In your own hands.
Yes ma'am.
And it's because when you have a doctorate
they kind of go oh, okay.
And they give you the opportunity to do that.
But when you actually get to hold something that old
in your own hands and read it for yourself
with nobody translating anything it's quite a shocker.
But the same was true when we went
to the Holy Cross Monastery deep in the Himalayas.
Monasteries are fanatical record keepers.
And they don't do it to stir difficulties or upheaval.
They do it because they want
the people of the future to know
what the teachings are about.
And when I held those scrolls talking about Isha
and what he was doing, I mean it was the same dynamic.
It was like, wow.
When you say you read them yourself,
are you saying in Greek or Arabic, I mean Aramaic,
or is it simply because you are so
incredibly intuitive, you just downloaded it?
A little bit of both, (laughs) a little bit of both.
Actually, being candid with you,
when I first began reading the scrolls
in the Holy Cross Monastery
and the Hemis Monastery in Ladakh,
I had an interpreter.
And I asked him to read literal.
I didn't want translation, and my intuitive part
kicked in on what the message actually is.
Because you see to me, ancients,
and even in the dead sea scrolls and the Nag Hammadi,
same thing happened.
An interpreter, I want a literal translation.
What I found in my experience is is ancients
use right brain language to speak from.
In other words, it's metaphorical.
As an example, the biblical text.
Every theologian on planet Earth including the pope,
will tell you that it's metaphorical
and allegorical language.
Well if it's metaphorical and allegorical
then you can not take it in a literal
left brain logical context.
So any ancient text that anybody ever has their fingers on,
if you want to interpret use your right brain
intuitive creative side to read it
and it makes absolute implicit sense.
Just a simple example,
an ancient term jeru salem, which is actually two words,
has been instituted today as Jerusalem.
Jeru salem actually interprets into place of peace.
Your heart is your place of peace.
It's not a city, but today it's a city.
All right? So what we've done is we've lost
the metaphorical language of the ancients
by taking them in a very left brain
logical literal context.
Well the whole message has been lost.
But if you read even the biblical text
through the right brain and look at
the metaphorical language,
you have to have some reference to what terminology means.
But once you understand the terminology,
Regina, it's universal.
It doesn't matter whether it's written in the Vedas.
It doesn't matter whether it's written in the Upanishads
or the Buddhist sutras or the Vedanta.
It doesn't matter.
It doesn't matter whether it's written in the
Dead Sea Scrolls, the Nag Hammadi,
or even the biblical text.
Because it's all transferable.
The language is in essence the same.
I can sit here and say to you this,
that if you read the Vedas
which is the oldest known,
four to five thousand year old text,
in the history of the world,
and then you read the Bible after you read the Vedas,
you're going to find the Veda principles in it.
Then how did we come through our
modern day religions
(laughs)
to see ourselves as tiny little sinners
and God is a harsh and judgmental being.
Oh yeah, he can perhaps grant a few wishes but...
(laughs)
It'll actually give you anything you want.
Master Lobsang looked at me one day and said,
young man, what if you term,
what if what you term as your God
heard everything that you thought
and considered that thought a request
to give you that as an experience,
would you change the way that you think?
And I said, yes master I would.
And he said, good, because that is the truth.
So, it doesn't do anything but give us
everything we ask for.
And here's the funny thing, Regina,
it's literal, we're not.
So when we ask for abundance and we're thinking lack,
it gives us an abundance of lack
because after all it does have
an extremely divine sense of humor
(interviewer laughs)
in everything that it does.
Around 485 BCE, or ACE,
Constantine wanted to applaud
his Christian soldiers so to speak.
And so he decided that they were going to adopt
the Christian religion
as the religion of Rome.
And the real reason they did that
is because Rome was losing it's grip.
People didn't believe in Rome anymore.
So what they wanted to do was give
humankind an external belief.
Little did they know how much
that was going to take hold of the human psyche,
the human mind.
And so what they did is they created an external God,
a devil, what people don't realize is
is the Bible as it stands actually was founded
on four separate factions.
And what Emperor Constantine did
is they unified those four factions in the Nicaean council.
First off, the Nicaean council was actually about
what's this holy trinity thing?
We've got to come up with a name for that,
we've got to find a name to describe that.
And once they did that, what they did is they
combined four factions.
The Marcionites founded by Marcion
and his teachings, there was a punishing God.
And the Ebionites, which was the second faction,
by the way all four of these were in conflict
in ancient middle east.
Always good to put that together
in the same pot isn't it, in the teaching?
Absolutely.
Internal conflict.
And that's exactly what they did.
Well the Ebionites had a greater God and a lesser God.
And then they combined the Thomasines, Thomas,
the apostle who was also in India with the Christ.
And in fact there is a form of Christianity
on the eastern coast of India, but it's the Thomasines,
not Christ.
Because when the events occurred with the Christ,
should they be correct or true, Thomas went to India.
And the fourth faction was the Gnostics
founded by Mary Magdalene.
And the Gnostic tradition, which is what
the Nag Hammadi is based on.
In fact, there's an obscure text that's approved
by the Vatican, and didn't know it
until I was writing about a physical
interpretation of the Bible.
My supposition is is that Mary Magdalene
actually wrote the gospel of John
because it's very feminine in it's nature.
And the only reason that Mary Magdalene was
turned into a prostitute, because the Bible
doesn't say that, was because of insecurity
of Pope Gregory because she was in
direct conflict and their path
was in direct conflict with the Catholic Church.
So he termed her as a prostitute
knowing nobody would follow her after that
and that's exactly what happened.
But interestingly enough, Mark, one of the four gospels,
used to be the largest of the four gospels,
but Pope Gregory actually removed over half of it
and now it's one of the shortest gospels
and we don't know what was in it.
Now that is in the
metaphysical interpretations of the Bible.
And we're going to have another entire
conversation about just that.
Sure.
Because this is too rich,
we can't do this all in one go.
Okay. But you asked me about the journey
and I'm taking you through
to where I am today and how I got
what I got out of it.
I apologize for getting a little bit off topic.
No no, not at all, I just wanted
to let people know they're going to hear
a lot more about this because we're
doing a whole other piece on that.
Good.
Now, you said some things a moment ago
I want to get back to.
One of them was talking about this ability
to manifest very literally
and how our minds have attached
various concepts to this, and some of it
has been made available to humanity
through The Secret, for example.
Many many many many, I mean,
Tony Robbins, many different
messengers on this level.
This is also an area that with your knowledge base
you went into and you have developed
a couple of CDs.
Yeah, so tell us about that,
what you had done in that.
When you work with masters in the far east,
Lobsang and Kaila, they will shock you.
I mean, when they first met me
that day near the Punjab, their whole idea
was to crumble every belief system I had.
And through the months and years with them
that's exactly what they continued to do.
They literally demonstrated the power of manifestation
in a very instant context.
How so? Do you care to give examples?
Are you allowed to?
When you say it, people doubt, but know this,
theses eyes have seen people walk on water.
They've seen water in a container freeze
almost solidly in a matter of moments.
Music where there was no stereo.
Food appear where there was none.
And I'm not the only one to see that and to know that.
Baird Spalding, H.P. Blavotsky, Colonel Olcott,
Kahlil Gibran, just to pick off a couple
that I know off the top of my head have also seen this.
But you have to understand, it's not something
that they do to show off.
If you do it to show off then it's ego based.
And if it's ego based it just simply won't work.
In essence, the power of manifesting is essentially this,
let's look at the field of astrophysics for a moment.
And in my dual CD set The Power of Thought
I go into great detail with this, but
in essence here's how manifesting works.
If we look in the field of astrophysics,
there's three, and three only,
constants in the entire cosmos. Three.
The holy trinity if you will.
Okay, which the Catholic Church has shifted.
And by the way, they don't want us to know
that we're capable of doing everything that Christ did.
All right.
That would seem apparent.
First off, you can find an electrical field
everywhere in the universe.
You can find a magnetic field
And you can find a gravitational field
also everywhere in the universe.
Well here's the intriguing thing,
you, myself, and every single human
on the face of this Earth are a living, breathing,
thinking, feeling, walking electromagnetic field generator.
We are very literally an electromagnet.
With that in mind, like attracts like.
We draw to us the very every single experience that we have.
But until every human assumes personal responsibility
for their experiences, i.e. removing the notion of blame,
it cannot be utilized by them.
Here's how it works, your emotional self, your heart,
is the electrical charge necessary for that magnet.
Your mind is the steering mechanism
and is the magnetic generator.
You put those two fields together,
you now have an electromagnet which creates
a gravitational field.
Once your gravitational field is created,
the very thing you're seeking will come to you.
You do not have to go to it.
Now, how do we as humans utilize it more times than not?
Simple.
If you're at the beginning of the month and you realize
you have to pay out 2000 dollars by the end of the month
and what you have is 500 dollars,
what we do is we begin to worry about what we don't have.
There's our electrical charge.
Our mind is saying I don't have it, I don't have it,
so what we're putting a magnetic charge now to,
creating an electromagnetic field,
is the idea of lack, drawing less to us.
But if we turn it around
and we focus it in the other direction
and we focus all of that energy
on the end result only of what it is that we seek,
it will find you just as my teachers in India
drew me to them and they later explained that to me.
And that's in essence how it works.
The key is, one of my students,
I looked at her and said, I want you to think
of a very simple phrase.
I want you to love the idea of hearing that phrase
and then let it go.
And she called me one day and she said
Steven, I don't get it.
And I said, what?
She goes, everywhere I go I see a pink Cadillac.
And I start laughing, I say, well Carla,
what was your phrase?
I wanted a pink Cadillac.
And I went, okay, what about that
is it you don't get?
And she goes, but Steven, everywhere I go
there's a different pink Cadillac.
And I said, okay, drop the phrase out of your mind
and replace it with something else.
And she did.
You see, right now you can think of something
that you would like to hear, that you yourself
would like to hear, make the phrase simple,
focus on that phrase, love hearing that phrase,
and make it a phrase that you do not hear very often.
And then let it go.
And within 48 hours you will hear that phrase.
And if you can do it with a simple phrase
then you can do it with anything in the world.
Absolutely anything.
Now, if anybody viewing this and listening to this
understands those three simple principles
and then master your mind,
you can have anything in this world that you want.
And that's what the CD set is about?
Yes ma'am.
Sounds fantastic, I can't wait to hear it.
People say to me, do you think?
And I say to anyone that asks me that, no.
My mind is absolutely free of thought
until there's something I choose to think upon.
Then and only then is there a thought.
When you free your mind of thought
it makes you extremely powerful
because now your thought has pure intention.
With it, behind it, created with it.
And then your manifestation is instant.
And we have monkey minds.
Well, as Buddha once said,
free your mind of all the chattering monkeys.
Yes ma'am.
And so that is part of what the CD set does?
And the easiest key to that,
if we wanted to get to the bottom line,
always here's my suggestion to anybody listening out there,
always keep your mind right behind your eyes.
Where your eyes look, have your mind follow.
Interesting. That's an
interesting way to put it.
It's not easy at first, but it's easy ultimately.
That is truly being in the now also.
Being present, yes, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Have no hesitation with sharing with people
that the mind is a magnificent thing
and at the same time it's an extremely dangerous thing.
Because if all of us took a moment and considered
for one moment in time,
every human in the entire world's
life has their basis and how they see themselves
and how they allow their minds to do what they do.
No hesitation with looking at people and saying,
do you control your mind or does your mind control you?
98 percent will say I control my mind.
Exactly. No they don't.
It's the opposite.
Yes ma'am. Totally.
First gain control of the mind.
That's all the Christ did, that's all the Buddha did,
that's all any great teacher has ever done
in the history of the world.
They mastered their own selves.
If you were this thing that we call God,
you created all of this reality,
you created every living thing in this reality,
but your key to what you did and why you did it
was so that your creation would be
just exactly like you.
That would simply mean that you would
want them to seek how to become that.
So that now means you would hide it
and it also means that when you hide it
you would put it someplace.
So the question is,
how would you do it and where would you put it?
And interestingly enough, the answer came
right out of Christ's mouth himself.
Here's what you would do,
you would make it so simple
that the logical mind would never be able to comprehend it.
The second thing you would do is you would put it
right in plain sight because nobody would buy it.
And here's how that was arrived at:
Christ twice in the Book of Matthew says,
along with Buddha,
says that you must have the mind of the child
to enter the kingdom.
And he also says that you must have
the innocence of the child.
So in other words, it's you already,
it's myself, and it's every other living human.
How do we know that?
Let me ask you a question Regina.
Would you say that the creator is the epitome of perfection?
Well my mind goes into
looking for the hidden question in that.
There's not one.
What is? Yes.
Okay. All right.
So what we're being taught is the epitome of perfection
has created something that isn't.
Now in a logical context,
if this creator is the epitome of perfection,
then if it doesn't create perfection
then that means it's a joke.
The other thing is if this thing that we term
as the creator didn't create inequality,
perfect equality, that would also make it a joke.
Now let's take that one step further.
It created even equal to it's own self
because in Matthew five the Christ also says,
you look here and you look there for the kingdom of heaven,
yet you do not know that it is within you.
And if God's in heaven, and heaven's within you,
then guess what, you are already what you seek.
Yes.
Master Kaila one day looked at me and said, young man,
what do you seek?
I told him I wanted to be like Buddha,
I wanted to be like the Christ, Kuan Yin,
Tara, Lao-Tzu,
all of these great wise people.
And he looked at me and smiled and he said good,
you will never have it.
What?
And he looked at me and smiled and said this,
young man, as long as you seek a thing,
it means you do not have what you seek.
But when you cease seeking it, it will find you.
I found that to be the case.
So you see, we all already
what we have always looked to be.
But because we think we're broke,
because we don't love ourselves,
and because we believe for some reason
that we're not perfect, then we cannot have
the very mechanism that was gifted us
since creation actually began.
And we live in a world that's filled
with the struggles that we see.
Of course those are only a judgement
that we place upon it anyway.
Yes ma'am.
And on that
I'm going to say thank you,
this has just been a beautiful time spent with you.
And your wisdom, and you're an unbelievable
intuitive to boot.
We chatted beforehand and, pretty amazing.
Thank you.
You're right there, everything is right there
dialed into all of it.
And what I'd like to do then is pick up a conversation
with you on the metaphysical interpretations of the Bible
because we need to unwind a lot of stuff there.
Okay.
Until then, thank you.
I appreciate it.
This interview was a wonderful journey for me as well.
As I mentioned, Steven is a very talented psychic,
and his greater mind has been opened
to the grid of knowledge.
Not only does he share his knowledge in his books,
which you can find through Amazon or on his website,
but he also takes a small group of people to India
for their own awakening once a year.
He has seen much and will share more of his knowledge
in our interview with him next month.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(peaceful music)